---
layout:     post
title:      "Generative vs. Discriminative"
subtitle:   "What is the difference between the Generative and Discriminative models"
date:       2018-01-25 12:00:00
author:     "Sara"
header-img: "img/post-bg-nextgen-web-pwa.jpg"
header-mask: 0.3
catalog:    true
multilingual: true
tags:
  - Machine-Learning
---

<div class="zh post-container">
{% capture about_en %}
The fundamental distinction between discriminative models and generative models is:

* Discriminative models learn the (hard or soft) boundary between classes
* Generative models model the distribution of individual classes

#### Discriminative

SVMs and decision trees are discriminative because they learn explicit boundaries between classes. 

SVM is a maximal margin classifier, meaning that it learns a decision boundary that maximizes the distance between samples of the two classes, given a kernel. The distance between a sample and the learned decision boundary can be used to make the SVM a "soft" classifier. 

Decision trees learn the decision boundary by recursively partitioning the space in a manner that maximizes the information gain (or another criterion).

#### Generative

Generative models are typically specified as probabilistic graphical models. They offer rich representations of the independence relations in the dataset.

Discriminative models do not offer such clear representations of relations between features and classes in the dataset. Instead of using resources to fully model each class, they focus on richly modeling the boundary between classes. Given the same amount of capacity (say, bits in a computer program executing the model), a discriminative model thus may yield more complex representations of this boundary than a generative model.

When you are dealing with non-stationary distributions where the online test data may be generated by different underlying distributions than the training data, it is typically more straightforward to detect distribution changes and update a generative model accordingly than do this for a decision boundary in an SVM, especially if the online updates need to be unsupervised. 

To sum up:

| Discriminative models | Generative models |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| learn the (hard or soft) boundary between classes  | model the distribution of individual classes  |
| generally do not function for outlier detection  | generally function for outlier detection  |
| do not offer clear representations of relations between features and classes in the dataset  | offer rich representations of the independence relations in the dataset  | 

{% endcapture %}
{{ about_en | markdownify }}
</div>

<div class="en post-container">

</div>